---
title: Allspice
weight: 1
# bookFlatSection: false
# bookToc: true
bookHidden: true
# bookCollapseSection: false
# bookComments: false
# bookSearchExclude: false
# series: [Spice]
---

HOW TO: 

    pandoc -s example4.tex -o example5.md

# Allspice
## Overview

|   id  |          allspice         |
|-------|---------------------------|
|species|*Pimenta dioica* (L.) Merr.|
| family|         Myrtaceae         |

## Names

{{< tabs "allspice" >}}
{{< tab "English" >}}

allspice

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Arabic" >}}

فلفل إفرنجي

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab "Chinese" >}}

多香果

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}


***

# Allspice {#sec:allspice}

::: note
Introducing the *Spice profile box*. As it can be seen above in *Spice
profile* [\[spice:allspice\]](#spice:allspice){reference-type="ref"
reference="spice:allspice"} presenting allspice, this business-card-like
environment gives a quick reference of the spice under scrutiny in a
concise way. This is intended to be a convenience for the reader to
return and glance back at brief, factual information about a particular
item whenever necessary. The box also contains a clickable link to the
related plant species in a botanical database,
[POWO]{acronym-label="POWO" acronym-form="singular+short"}, where more
information can be found, such as the plants' biodiversity,
distribution, botanical synonyms, as well as images of specimens.
:::

Allspice, also known as pimento and Jamaica pepper, refers to the dried
unripe fruits of a tropical evergreen tree growing in the Caribbean: the
. The dried berries are dark brown, hard to the touch, and 4--6 mm in
diameter (thus larger than black pepper). Their signature crown is by a
small ring of the calyx [@van_wyk_culinary_2014 210]. It is one of the
few spices that do not come from the East; chili, vanilla, and allspice
are the traditional three when one is listing spice products native to
the Americas (disregarding cacao which is not considered a spice today).
It is also the only spice that is exclusively cultivated on the western
hemisphere [@duke_crc_2002 21]. The term *allspice* is a coinage playing
on the notion that the flavors and aroma of allspice is similar to that
of clove, cinnamon, nutmeg, and black pepper [@mabberley_mabberleys_2017
717]---the most popular spices in Europe at the time when Europeans got
in contact with this New World spice. People who only saw ground
allspice but not whole, often tend to think that is in fact a spice
mixture, after its name and rich flavor profile. Usually ground to
powder, allspice is one of the key ingredients of Caribbean cuisine,
especially jerk style dry-rub meat preparation. It is also used in
European sausage making, pickling, baking, and flavoring liqueurs, it an
overall "handy spice".[^1] It also found its way into some Middle
Eastern spice blends.

::: note
[]{#note:pimento label="note:pimento"} Allspice is sometimes called
pimento, which is also the name of a cultivar of , famous from the
Southern United States appetizer pimento-cheese. It is therefore
important not to confuse allspice with the heart-shaped mild cherry
peppers that North Americans also call pimiento or pimento.
:::

## The Botany, Origin, and Cultivation of Allspice

The allspice tree is a small mid-canopy tree or shrub with smooth,
bay-like leaves and tiny white flowers. The berries turn dark purple if
left to ripe, and the leaves and the bark are also aromatic
[@riffle_tropical_1998 279]. Belonging to the myrtle family
(*Myrtaceae*), allspice is related to other aromatic trees, such as
clove, eucalyptus, and the bay rum tree. Its binomial name is made up of
*pimenta*, the Portuguese (or corrupted Spanish) equivalent of 'pepper',
and *dioica* 'of two houses' (Greek *di-* from *dyo* 'two' and *oikos*
'house'), indicating that the male and female flowers are found on
different plants \[166\]peter_handbook_2012.

Allspice is indigenous to the regions ranging from Southern Mexico to
Central America and the Greater Antilles of the Caribbean, especially
Jamaica [@czarra_spices_2009 146]. Where naturalized, it spreads by
birds carrying the seeds. Allspice has been since introduced to a few
neighboring places, such as Colombia, Venezuela, and Florida
[@powo_pimenta_2022 146]. In 1885 it was introduced from Jamaica to
Hawaii and Kauai, and it even reached Tonga.

Allspice is cultivated as a crop in a few countries, notably in Jamaica,
Mexico, and to a lesser extent in Honduras and Grenada. The primary
producer and the source of the highest quality being Jamaica. Saplings
are grown from seeds, then soon transplanted when still small. The trees
need well-drained soil and humid conditions [@van_wyk_culinary_2014
210]. It is one of the only spices that no one managed to grow in the
East, transplantation efforts were quickly abandoned, and its commercial
cultivation is confined to the Americas [@duke_crc_2002 21]. Harvesting
happens similarly to how black pepper is harvested; the still green,
unripe fruits are picked by hand, and then dried under the sun.

The flavor of allspice mainly comes from the component eugenol, which is
dominant both in the fruit and the leaves, but other compounds also add
to the complexity of its aroma. Eugenol---also called clove oil, for it
constitutes 80-90% of the essential oil from clove buds
[@barnes_herbal_2007 166]---is widely used as a flavoring agent by the
food industry and in pharmacology, and is also found in cinnamon,
nutmeg, and bay leaves. It has antiseptic, antibacterial, anesthetic,
and analgesic properties [@ulanowska_biological_2021]. The leaves of a
related plant called the West Indian Bay Tree () is used to produce bay
rum, a popular essential oil used by the perfume industry for its spicy
notes.

## The History of Allspice

There is not much we know about allspice before the arrival of the
Europeans, except that the Aztecs used it to spice up their chocolate
drink [@farrell_spices_1985 27], although @dalby_dangerous_2000 [145,
177] doubts this was the case that early on. According to @duke_crc_2002
[21], the Maya used allspice for embalming. We know that it reached
Europe as a consequence of Christopher Columbus's voyages. Spanish
colonizers must have encountered allspice in the West Indies sometime
after Columbus and his crew explored the islands of Hispaniola, Cuba,
and Jamaica, and the year 1494 is reported [@opara_culinary_2021 12].
Columbus himself did not find it. In fact, he did not recognize any
spice he was so keen on finding---pepper, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon---but
kept himself and his patrons in the delusion that he will. In his first
letter to Ferdinand and Isabella he writes: "On this island there are
many spices and great mines of gold and other metals. \[\...\] I believe
that I have found rhubarb and cinnamon." [@columbus_spanish_1893 10-18]
---in reality, he had none.[^2]

He was adamant that the islands he *discovered* were full of spices and
brought up excuse after excuse (out of season, etc.) after every voyage
he returned with no spice [@dalby_dangerous_2000 149]. He also believed
that he was in India or Cathay, on one of the outlying islands. Between
apologies, Columbus also promised more gold, silver, cotton, mastic, and
slaves. As @dalby_dangerous_2000 [150] reports, what he recorded in his
private journal is a bit more honest and realistic version of events: "I
think that many trees and plants grow here which will be highly valued
in Spain for dyes and medicinal spices. But I am sorry to say that I do
not recognize them." Columbus repeatedly regrets his ignorance in botany
in his journal [see also @columbus_journal_2010 57].

Interestingly, authors love to claim that Columbus brought back allspice
(together with vanilla and chili): "He returned with allspice from the
West Indies, chilies from Mexico and vanilla from Central America."
[@craze_spice_1997 17], and "Columbus brought it back to Europe thinking
it was pepper." [@czarra_spices_2009 146], or "Though he did not find
the Spice Islands, Columbus brought allspice, vanilla and red peppers
from the West Indies back to his Spanish supporters."
[@parthasarathy_chemistry_2008 1]. This is not true, he most likely
never even saw allspice, but it was reported him that it is there and
can be cultivated, along with cinnamon, and mulberry for silk production
[@colon_life_1959 151]. Columbus returned from his first voyage of
1492--93 with some gold nuggets and jewelry, pearls, a hammock, tobacco,
the turkey, and a few poor captured Taínos, but no spices were presented
to the Spanish monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella. He did bring back
pineapple and cassava [@turner_spice_2004 11].

Diego Álvarez Chanca, the court appointed physician who accompanied
Columbus on his second expedition in 1493 is often credited with
bringing home both chili, and allspice [@mccormick_history_nodate], but
in his 1494 letter describing the flora and fauna, he only mentions
*agi*, also *axi*---modern Spanish *ají* from Taíno---[see
@corominas_breve_1987 34], and that the natives use it to season their
food, with what we now know as : the chili pepper [@chanca_american_2003
311].

In the following century the Spanish tried to turn Mexico into a spice
plantation by transplanting eastern spices, an effort that mostly
failed. Only after this did the colonizers start to pay proper attention
to native spices [@machuca_past_2020 6].

Francisco Hernández de Toledo, King Philip II's court physician and
naturalist spent 7 years in New Spain between 1571--1577, studying its
species and conducting interviews with the natives. He was the first to
formally describe allspice. He called it *Pipere Tavasci* 'Tabasco
pepper' (today *Pimienta de Tabasco*, after the region of Tabasco,
famous today for a brand of hot sauce. Hernández also recorded the
Nahuatl name of allspice: *xocoxochitl* 'sour flower'.[^3] Hernández
likens the flowers to pomegranates, and and the aroma to that of orange
blossoms, describing it to be very pleasant and attractive, with a sharp
taste of the fruit. [@hernandez_cuatro_1615 2]. In @machuca_past_2020's
translation:

> "Xocoxochitl meaning sour flower, is a large tree, with leaves like
> those of the oranges, red flowers like a pomegranate, but with an
> aroma like the orange blossom, and in such a smooth and pleasant way,
> that even the leaves of the tree add to its attraction: the fruit is
> round, and hangs in clusters, which at first appear green, and then
> beige, and finally towards black: it is sharp and scathing to taste,
> and good-smelling"

According to @machuca_past_2020, although allspice was known by the
Spanish from early on "there are few historical records of its
production and trade", and only in the century started they to consider
American products to have economic potential.

Allspice berries are around 30% larger then peppercorns, and since their
color and shape resembles black pepper, and it gave a spicy taste to
food, it is no wonder that the Spanish called them *pimiento* 'pepper'.
The Portuguese version is *pimento*, and later the botanical name
*Pimenta* was given to the genus of plants related to allspice
[@farrell_spices_1985 26]. I disagree with the often repeated trope that
the Spanish explorers mistook allspice berries for pepper and called
them *pimiento* "by mistake"[^4], these people knew exactly what they
were looking for, and that what they have found is not the mighty black
pepper; but for them it was a kind of pepper. The crew showed samples of
pepper and cinnamon to presumably confused Native Americans hoping for
directions, and as Columbus wrote in his journal on the of November,
1492, they indicated by sign language that there is a lot of it around
[@duke_crc_2002 21; @columbus_journal_2010 67]. The Europeans, however,
soon recognized the value of allspice, even if it was not the expensive
black pepper, but still more pungent and exotic than some cheap Old
World substitutes, the juniper and myrtle berries (which are very
similar to allspice in appearance and usage) [@dalby_dangerous_2000
150].

In short, allspice was introduced to Europe by the Spaniards in the
century, its import was first recorded in 1601, according to
@britannica_allspice_nodate and @farrell_spices_1985 [26]. After 1655,
when Jamaica became a British colony for nearly three centuries, the
Brits developed a taste for allspice and started to use it to season
meat dishes, sauces, and pickles [@green_field_2006 74]. They were also
responsible for its spread to some extent which is illustrated by the
names of allspice in some languages, e.g. Polish *ziele angielskie*
'English herb'.

## The Names of Allspice

Allspice is a fascinating case, because it gives us examples for a
plethora of names that showcase us many of the motivations, mechanisms,
and solutions people choose when naming spices. As I mentioned before,
some people are puzzled if allspice is a spice blend or not. The names
in some languages often just add to the confusion, for example French
*quatre-épices* (lit. 'four spices') can have the sense 'allspice', but
also 'a kind of spice mix' made up of four different spices.[^5]

### English

::: note
Introducing the *Etymology box*. This environment, as seen above in
*Etymology* [\[ety:allspice\]](#ety:allspice){reference-type="ref"
reference="ety:allspice"}, offers a quick look at a words' origins and
development.
:::

Since its introduction to the spice cabinet, allspice has been known by
many names from which currently *allspice* seems to be prevailing.
*Allspice* was formed by compounding *all* and *spice*, for its flavor
was perceived to be a combination of four characteristic spices that the
Europeans knew and sought after: black pepper, cinnamon, cloves, and
nutmeg.[^6] It was first recorded in 1621: "Ambergreese, nutmegs, and
all spice."[^7], and probably inspired the French *toute-épice*
'all-spice', attested in 1762.[^8]

Sadly, the original word for allspice was lost with the demise of the
native Taíno people of the Caribbean, nevertheless we got Taíno[^9]
words such as barbecue, *cassava*, *guava*, *hammock*, and *tobacco*
[@rafinesque_american_1836 229]. As we concluded before, it is assumed
that it was the Spanish who first got in contact with the allspice
berry, and that they simply called it *pimienta* 'pepper'.

For a long time *pimento* (and to a much lesser extent *pimiento*)---the
words for 'pepper' in Portuguese and Spanish, respectively---was
commonly used in English to refer to allspice. This is still the case in
Jamaican English for example, where the term *allspice* is not used. In
North American English however, *pimento* now rather refers to a small,
round variety of chili pepper (), commonly known as cherry pepper
explained in [\[note:pimento\]](#note:pimento){reference-type="ref"
reference="note:pimento"}.

The corruption and mix-up between the English words *pimento* and
*pimiento* and their origins is as confusing as it gets. For the sake of
a clear understanding, let us first consider the modern names for
allspice in Spanish: *pimienta de Jamaica*, and Portuguese:
*pimenta-da-jamaica*. In both cases, *pim(i)enta*, with a final *-a*,
means 'pepper', referring to peppercorns of the usual black and white
pepper (). In Spanish and Portuguese, the words endings of *-o* and *-a*
mark the grammatical gender, the significance of which dissipates in
English. It is important to remember however, that the Spanish form
*pimienta* emerged first from a Latin neuter plural suffix in the
century. Thus, perhaps a century or so later when the word *pimienta*
was already embedded in Spanish, speakers perceived the word as a
feminine noun, and a vacuum of a masculine counterpart emerged. This
allowed for a practical differentiation by gender between the peppers of
the Old Word and the New World. @corominas_breve_1987 [459] explains
that *pimiento* derived from *pimienta*, and it was first applied in the
Americas for the red fruits of the chili.

@gomez_de_silva_elseviers_1985 [415] makes the most compact distinction:
"*pimienta* '(black) pepper; allspice', *pimiento* '(hot and sweet)
pepper' ". In contemporary Spanish, *pimiento* (the masculine form)
refers to the fruits and plants of the *Capsicum* family, e.g. the
numerous spicy chilies and mild bell peppers of red, green, and yellow,
while *pimienta* (the feminine form) refers to the small round fruits of
black and white pepper and its powdered forms. The distinction seems
consistent, belonging to this latter group see for example *pimienta
dulce* 'sweet pepper', and *pimienta gorda* 'fat pepper' both of which
refers to allspice, not to be confused with *pimiento dulce*, which
refers to sweet paprika powder.[^10]

*Pimento* in English is a partly Portuguese, partly Spanish borrowing,
while *pimiento* comes from Spanish. In fact, it is explained in the
[OED]{acronym-label="OED" acronym-form="singular+short"} that in the
'allspice' sense of the word, *pimento*, from Portuguese *pimenta (da
Jamaica)*, went through an alteration influenced by the Spanish word
form, which is not attested in the 'allspice' sense. Ergo, Spanish
*pimiento* maybe did not refer to allspice in Spanish at the time when
the borrowing happened. And if so, *pimento* is a borrowing from
Portuguese *pimenta* meaning 'pepper' and, as *pimenta da Jamaica*,
'allspice', influenced by Spanish *pimiento* 'chili, sweet pepper', also
in the sense of the pepper plants of both kinds (chili and black).
Spanish *pimiento* formerly had the sense of 'black pepper, peppercorns,
and ground pepper' (before 1495), with an earlier form *pimienta* (
century), now usually in sense ground pepper and peppercorns[^11]. The
Portuguese connection is only discussed by the [OED]{acronym-label="OED"
acronym-form="singular+short"}, other dictionaries do not mention it. A
direct Spanish borrowing is also plausible if we consider that it was
the Spanish who most likely brought it back first, they probably called
it *pimiento/-a*, and they were responsible for its subsequent diffusion
in Europe. English spellings varied greatly of this this Romance word,
using forms such as *piemente* in the late 1600s.

The origin of these words is the classical Latin *pigmentum* 'a material
for coloring, a color, paint, pigment', with a transferred meaning 'the
juice of plants' in post-classical Latin.[^12] The word *pigmentum* is
made up of *pingō* 'to paint' and *-mentum*, a suffix denoting an
'instrument, medium', well recognizable from Romance languages and
English (i.e. excite*ment*). According to @corominas_breve_1987 [459],
Catalan *pimienta* is attested in the century and it comes from the
plural (*pigmenta*) of Latin *pigmentum* 'coloring, paint', which
already meant 'drug, ingredient', and later, 'condiment' in Medieval
Latin. Derived from this, in 1495 *pimiento* was applied to the the
plants bearing the pungent red fruits of the Americas. *Pigmentum* also
entered English as *pigment* 'paint, dye, ingredient in an ointment,
drug'. According to the [OED]{acronym-label="OED"
acronym-form="singular+short"}, Medieval Latin *pigmentum* also referred
to spiced drinks ( century), perfumes, and hence spice in general. Old
French cognates support this, *pigment* had the sense of 'balm, fragrant
spice' in the century, Anglo-Norman *pigment/piment* meant 'spice, spice
wine'[^13], and Middle English *pihmentum* ( century, later *piment*)
had a sense of "a spiced drink, a remedy or concoction containing
spices",[^14] "a sweetened, spiced wine used for refreshment and in
medical recipes; a medicinal potion".[^15] *Piment* in French were later
applied for chili, especially the cultivar of cayenne pepper. (The
[OED]{acronym-label="OED" acronym-form="singular+short"} points to the
sense 'cayenne pepper' in a " century French source", which must be an
error.)

Allspice is also known as *Jamaica pepper*, for it mainly grows on the
island and the historical reasons described above. Many languages
calqued *pimienta de Jamaica* from Spanish, or another transmitting
language (e.g. Italian *pepe della Giamaica*). *Jamaica pepper* was
first recorded in 1661: "A kind of Pepper, that tastes like Cloves, and
very Aromatick (known by the name of Iamaica-Pepper)".[^16]

The name *myrtle pepper* echoes the similarities of the allspice tree
with European myrtle (), especially after the resemblance of their
purple berries. Beyond the physical resemblance, myrtle berries are also
edible, and are also dried to add to pepper mills as a spice.
Furthermore, the European myrtle has aromatic leaves and wood as well,
and it is used to grill and smoke meat in Southern Europe since Roman
times, especially on Sardinia and Corsica; the same way the Caribbean
people use allspice wood and leaves. The myrtle berry appears in Roman
and Greek mythology as well [@van_wyk_culinary_2014 186].

The name *clove pepper* has "chemical reasons", namely that this name
arises from the aroma of allspice that reminded people of clove. This is
due to its eugenol content we discussed above. *Szegfűbors* lit.
'clove-pepper' is the most common name for allspice in Hungarian still,
and it is used in sausage making.

One of the most interesting spice names we can come across in my opinion
is *newspice*. The term is now archaic in English, but the idea still
exists in a few European languages, such as Serbian and Macedonian
*najgvirc* from German (*Neugewürz*), Czech and Slovak (*nové
koření/korenie*), and Turkish *yenibahar* and Romanian *ienibahar* from
Ottoman Turkish *yeñibahar*; all the above literally meaning 'new
spice'.

The reason behind these names is that during the 17- centuries, allspice
"suddenly" arrived to Central and Eastern Europe as a new (and possible
marketed as a trendy) spice. This happened a century after the red hot
paprika took the world by storm (by century it reached Hungary from the
Ottoman Empire), and while the chili did not conquer northern Europe,
allspice---to an extent---did. We could philosophize why the chili did
not deserve the name 'new spice' when it first arrived, or why the
Europeans---except on the south---were reluctant to assimilate it into
their cuisines. Was the pungent chili too harsh for a Northern palate to
consider? Is it the sophisticated chemical complexity of allspice that
made it fashionable in Victorian England? All these questions are
leading us to deep waters regarding the human palate and cultural
attitudes toward spices and spiciness, as well as environmental and
genetic factors deciding the heat of preference explored by interesting
papers such as @tornwall_why_2012 [@spence_why_2018].

We know that in the beginning allspice was overlooked by Europeans, and
this is possibly the reason why allspice's original name did not survive
unlike the Nahuatl word *chīlli*. Allspice was was later sold and used
in beverages and cookery, but its rising star never came close to that
of chili. In Asia, where chilies were adopted early on and, eagerly
transplanted, they transformed and revolutionized cuisine forever. It is
unimaginable to think of Indian, Indonesian, or Chinese dishes without
chilies today. Inversely, allspice is mostly unknown in East Asia, and
the reasons behind it are just as botanical as historical: In the 16-
century nobody knew how to grow allspice, while chili can be grown
everywhere effortlessly. In addition, Europeans did not sail to Asia to
sell spices, they went to take them.

As the century came around, allspice---the only spice still exclusively
imported from the Western hemisphere---quietly became one of the many,
and its fervor faded a little. America was not new anymore, and the name
*new spice* as well became obsolete. An English textbook for students of
Italian narrates a letter from 1680 about this *Nuova Spezie* and the
author's opinion on it:

> "I Am much obliged to you for the Drug you sent me inclosed in your
> last letter, about which I cannot tell you any thing but that it is
> called the New Spice, and it comes as it is said, or as it is guessed,
> from the West-Indies, and not from the East-lndies; and it is but six
> months that I had knowledge of it from Count Laurence Magalotti, who
> showed it me under the abovesaid name of New Spice. How many different
> tastes are found in it by several honest folks ! that of the clove is
> the principal ; that of the nutmeg is the second in rank ; the
> cinnamon comes as it were the third in order ; next the citron ; then
> the smell of the musk and of the amber, and the most sweet taste of
> sugar. The truth is, in my opinion, that it is a pretty Drug. I am in
> Florence, and with for an occasion to do you service ; so command me
> with all freedom, and be certain that I will count it as good luck to
> have any power to serve you. I affectionately kiss your hands.
> Florence, 26th March 1680." [@baretti_introduction_1755 5]

And so, we have established a few categories when it comes to the names
of allspice: (1) names that are made up of *spice* as a headword and a
modifying word, (2) names that use *pepper* as a headword with a
modifier, and (3) names that are taken from Portuguese and Spanish. See
[\[table:names_allspice_en\]](#table:names_allspice_en){reference-type="ref"
reference="table:names_allspice_en"} for a concise overview.

### Arabic

Arabic, similarly to English, boasts with a diverse set of names when it
comes to allspice. First and foremost, it is known as *filfil ifranjī*
'European pepper'. *Ifranjī* literally translates to 'Frankish', but it
became the epithet of white Europeans, similarly to the term
*farang*[^17] in Southeast Asia. The rationale behind this name is
evident: it was Europeans who introduced this spice to the Middle East
and North Africa in the centuries following its debut.

Allspice's Middle Eastern history is the topic I have found the least
amount of information on, considering every other spice in this chapter.
As it is an ingredient that have arrived long after the classical times,
it is not discussed in the literature I have consulted, and modern
articles only deal with it for its pharmaceutical and health benefits,
not with its journey. The challenge to find further Arabic synonyms is
also increased, because both English names *allspice* and *pimento* are
ambiguous. I have found examples of wrongly glossed entries in both
Arabic, and Chinese dictionaries. Be that as it may, I have managed to
collect a few other Arabic names for allspice from contemporary
dictionaries, these can be seen in
[\[table:names_allspice_ar\]](#table:names_allspice_ar){reference-type="ref"
reference="table:names_allspice_ar"}.

Further common vernacular names are *fifil ḥulw* lit. 'sweet pepper',
and *bahār ḥulw* lit. 'sweet spice', where *bahār* 'spice', is a
loanword from Persian. Persian *bahār* means spring (the season), it was
borrowed into Arabic with a sense of blossoms and foliage, alluding to
the leaves and flowers of plants as the source of many spices.[^18] In
the 'spice, seasoning, condiment' sense, the word spread regionally via
Ottoman Turkish (loaned from Arabic). Similarly to the case of English,
the word for spice was associated with the allspice berries, and
consequently resulted in the already mentioned Turkish *yenibahar*
\[newspice\] 'allspice', and *bachári* 'allspice'. Thus, just like
English, Arabic propagates allspice names by using the words for 'spice'
and 'pepper' with modifiers indicating qualities of taste, or who
carried the spice.

### Chinese

In Chinese, allspice goes by the name *duōxiāngguǒ*
\[many-spice-fruit\], supposedly a Chinese rendering of *allspice*.
However, in China allspice is practically non-existent; it is not used
in dishes, does not feature in [TCM]{acronym-label="TCM"
acronym-form="singular+short"} databases, and generally unknown besides
Western specialty grocery shops. A search in Baidu Index yields no
results as well. All the names except *tián hújiāo* 'sweet (black)
pepper' shown in
[\[table:names_allspice_zh\]](#table:names_allspice_zh){reference-type="ref"
reference="table:names_allspice_zh"} are relatively modern semantic
translations of presumably English sources. Just like in Arabic, it
obviously does not show up in pre-modern corpora, and scarcely present
in the modern corpus.

### Summary

shows all the names of allspice that can be found in dictionaries, in a
trilingual setting.

[^1]: The Icelandic name is *allrahanda*, literally 'of all hands',
    meaning 'for various purposes'; showing its multifaceted uses.

[^2]: Columbus's first letter of his first voyage, sent on March 4, 1493
    from Lisbon to the Spanish court (and its translation) is also
    available online at King's College London. Transcription:
    <http://www.ems.kcl.ac.uk/content/etext/e021.html>, translation:
    <http://www.ems.kcl.ac.uk/content/etext/e022.html>

[^3]: [cf. @ond xococ; xochitl].

[^4]: [@britannica_allspice_nodate allspice ].

[^5]: [@tlfi quatre-épices ].

[^6]: [@oed allspice; @britannica_allspice_nodate].

[^7]: [@oed allspice].

[^8]: [@tlfi toute-épice ].

[^9]: Taíno is a now extinct Arawakan language.

[^10]: [@dle pimiento, -a].

[^11]: [@oed pimento].

[^12]: [@lewis_latin_1879 pigmentum ].

[^13]: [@oed pigment].

[^14]: [@oe pigment].

[^15]: [@med piment].

[^16]: [@oed Jamaica].

[^17]: A word of Persian origin, applied for the Franks during the
    crusades (from Old French *franc*), and later by extension to any
    white merchant used from Persia to Thailand.

[^18]: [@dozy_supplement_1881 121].
