---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 10
# bookCollapseSection: true
# bookComments: true
# bookFlatSection: true
# bookHidden: true
# bookSearchExclude: true
# bookToc: false
---

# Introduction {#ch:introduction}

<!-- Upon reading
about the different spices that nature has gifted us with, I have came
across a unique one. There is a small aromatic tree native to the
islands of the Greater Antilles, bearing little berries. The indigenous
people used this tree and its fruit in various ways in the stages of
food preparation, as a medicine and flavouring agent. It is still an
important crop today, only growing in Central America. The wood is used
to smoke meat, the leaves are added to stews and rum for their aroma
(similarly to the bay-leaf in Europe), but most importantly the dried
berries are used as a spice. Outside the Caribbean it is not a
particularly well known ingredient, still, many cuisines use it in
various ways since its diffusion starting from the century. In English,
you can call it *Jamaica pepper* or *pimento*, in Arabic, it is *fulful
ifranjī* \[Frankish pepper\] or *bahār ḥulw* \[sweet spice\], and in
Chinese, it is mostly known as *duoxiangguo*
\[many-spice/fragrant-fruit\]. Furthermore, Hungarians call it
*szegfűbors*\[clove-pepper\], in Turkish it is *yenibahar*
\[new-spice\], in Iceland it is known as the 'handy spice',
*allrahanda*, and the Polish call it *ziele angielskie* \[English
herb\]. What a variety! The tree itself is also called Caribbean laurel.
However, this plant is not a laurel, it is not a pepper, nor chili, and
it is not an herb. What is this versatile spice exactly? How come that
this material has so many so different names? And what is the
explanation and motivation behind these names; what is their story? This
dissertation is about answering such questions, and telling the story of
spices through examining their nomenclature. -->

## Significance

Understanding the language of spices is a key to open a door to this
world. A door that leads to the realization that our words---and
material culture---are deeply interconnected, and that they have have
been so for thousands of years. I will try to demonstrate this by
introducing these fascinating substances from a new perspective, the
perspective of language. It is trendy nowadays to talk about *foodways*,
a term that refers to "the eating habits and culinary practices of
people, regions, or historical periods",[^allen_encyclopedia_2013]
and food history, a relatively young interdisciplinary academic field is
starting to gain traction as well. However, the connections between
language and food are one of the most interesting examples of
contemporary humanities research I have come across (see Jurafsky, 2014).[^jurafsky_language_2014] There is a segment of this topic---the spice
domain---which encompasses products that have had profound effects of
human imagination, culture, and history. Although somewhat overshadowed
by the serious questions of nutrition, modern scientific research on
spices was never a fringe field. It is enough to look at the many
pharmacological studies that dive into the chemistry of these materials
to realize that people are still interested in their health
effects---just as they were thousands of years ago---as much as their
taste and aroma.

Spices are not a necessity to human survival, but commanded intense
desire and efforts, and as such they constitute an enthralling
phenomenon throughout human history, which can be studied from many
angles. Therefore, research on spices has been embraced by many
historians, a few botanists, and countless culinary enthusiasts.
Scholars also realized the cultural significance of these products and
their trade early on, and following the path of these materials tried to
uncover the stories they can tell us about cultural contact and
exchange. Spices in the past conveyed the mystery and riches of faraway
lands, they were considered remedies for sickness, and they were the
ultimate gifts of paradise. It may be so that spices are not vital for
humans, but sustenance itself is just enough to maintain life, not to
live it to the fullest. Spices today represent the excitement, the joy
and vigor, as it is so clear from expressions in our language: to *spice
up* your life is to enliven it!

## Originality

This thesis aims to do a systematic investigation on spice names and
related terminology, including products that were used (or still being
used) medicinally, as incense, or as perfume. Aromatics that were at
some point considered spices have been traded and transported across
long distances since antiquity and before, and the most coveted ones
have slowly dispersed throughout the globe. Spices and the spice domain
as a topic are usually discussed within the broad disciplines of
history, botany, chemistry, and gastronomy, all concerned by very
different aspects of these materials. To the best of my knowledge, there
is no academic work that puts the field of linguistics in focus when
discussing spices as a whole, and so this project is a unique
contribution to our linguistic knowledge about the spice domain.

But why should anyone care about spices and their names? Because
exploring the names of the products of the spice trade---traveling on
vast networks of historic trade routes such as the Silk Road (small
volume of trade), and its nautical counterpart the Maritime Silk Road
(large volume of trade)---helps us to map and better understand
linguistic contact and cultural exchange. These ever-expanding trade
networks, first regional, later connecting East and West were a
precursor to today's globalized, interconnected world, and one of their
most lucrative products was dried plant-matter. These aromatic
substances were lightweight, easy to transport, and resistant to
spoilage. And, of course, they were highly valued for their fragrant and
pungent properties, and their reputed---both putative and
real---benefits for the human body and soul. Exotic and rare spices and
their role in rituals, medicine, and later cuisine made them sought
after, and the spice business inspired people to trade, travel, explore,
and wage wars. Spices are important in world history as they are
directly responsible for discoveries, colonization, and the birth of
capitalism. We know a great deal about the nature of spices thanks to
botanists and naturalist, their medicinal effects thanks to pharmacists
and chemists, and their uses and culinary values thanks to experts of
gastronomy. There is also a vast literature on the spread and economics
of spices thanks to researchers of history, but the careful study of
their names is often neglected. The meticulous study of spice
terminology is important, because the words can tell us a huge deal
about the material's origins and journey, even at a time depth where
textual or archeological evidence is not available. This work was born
out of fascination with the etymologies and global dispersion of spice
terms, and hopefully the attempt to collect them in one study can be
original and interesting.

## Problem Statement

Soon, my attention slightly shifted towards a problem that could be best
described by a lack of consistent and comprehensive knowledge regarding
spice names. I noticed a gap when it comes to spice terminology, as very
few scholars have turned their focus towards the nomenclature. The
absence of proper research regarding spice terminology have resulted in
a lack of understanding, and a decline of trust in the (secondary)
literature. Authors often give misguided and contradicting information
regarding the source of a name, or simply erroneously speculate on their
meanings and origins. There are no two authors that use the same set of
names when discussing a spice, which in itself is not a problem, but it
leads to issues in case of lesser known or exotic items. There is a
great deal of confusion on names and identities in the spice literature,
especially in lay areas aimed at the general public, such as popular
histories or guidebooks. The reasons for this are several.

Firstly, the experts of herbs, spices and other aromatics are chiefly
botanists, food industry professionals, chemists, chefs and food
writers, merchants and historians. Most people conducting research
related to spices focus on aspects other than the names of the products;
from plant morphology, to chemical composition, and pharmacological
effects, to social and cultural histories, their symbolism in
literature, not to mention the myriad of ways on how to buy, store, mix,
and use spices in creative recipes as discussed by the handy spice
encyclopedias tailored for gastro-enthusiasts. Relatively few linguists
devoted their time and attention to trace spice origins and even fewer
to compile them. In other words, the topic of spices requires a highly
multidisciplinary expertise, and when a plant taxonomist writes about
linguistics, or a culinary writer approaches history, some mistakes are
due.

Secondly, there is no reference work or an agreed upon inventory of
spice names to cover the multitude of spices that exist, and their many
names in various languages (and in different time periods); least of all
a complete list of *every spice*. Truthfully that seems rather
impossible, or at least quite a daunting task to embark on. Although the
internet nowadays is full of compact guides and indices assembled by
people who are fascinated with spices and their colorful uses listing
their names in many languages, these are not always trustworthy, and
often cite no sources. Similarly, blogs and articles are most often than
not dubious, and almost always require fact checking as many are just
permutations of historically inaccurate anecdotes and origin stories.
Most recently, I have found spice lists that are clearly just a dump of
computer generated information floating around on the internet using web
scraping and machine translation: these lists are highly inaccurate and
should be avoided. I will further elaborate on the inaccuracies
regarding names and etymologies found in the spice literature under the
literature review in the next chapter.

There is no comprehensive treatise on spice terms within academia until
today, and no database that focuses on, lists, explains, analyzes,
clarifies, traces, or compares spice names. Hence, I think there is an
obvious need for a standard work for others to turn to, and I hope that
this dissertation can lay the foundation for future efforts to achieve
this.

This is not to say that there is no work done on spice terminology,
there are a number of high quality writings from philologists,
linguists, and historians well versed in one or more relevant linguistic
and cultural area. The problem is that this kind of research requires a
highly specialized knowledge, and in result the information already out
there is sporadic, less accessible, and grossly unorganized. Key pieces
of information are often hidden between the pages of books on
traditional philology and material culture, literary critique, economic
history, and even botany, medicine, and archaeology of a given region.
Not to mention the many old works that are the primary sources for the
aforementioned publications. Consequently, since little effort have been
made to collate the data, there is a chasm between the critically
researched reliable information and what the end user---whether it is a
fellow researcher or a spice zealot---can easily access.

## Aims

The original goal in the beginning of this work was to gather and
augment the existing information about spice names and their origins,
and track their diffusion on spatial and temporal trajectories. This
still constitutes the core of this thesis, and I hope to achieve it by
combing through the existing literature and collecting the names of
spices, amending the gaps, and correcting possible errors on the way. By
doing so, the results should also give birth to a carefully researched
compendium of spice nomenclature, grounded in philology and linguistics,
but with the awareness of what spices are to botany, and what their role
was in history. presents you parts of this process and displays the data
seriatim, and introduces some of the spices.

The procedure shall manifest a dataset of spice names, with complete
lexicographical annotation including etymological information and
attestation dates. This in turn would allow me to trace the words and
track the linguistic diffusion of spices through space and time, which
then can be discussed hand-in-hand with the physical diffusion of the
materials. Eventually, the spread of the spices will be the basis for a
discussion on the implications of linguistic and cultural contact and
exchange, and it makes up
[\[ch:diffusion\]](#ch:diffusion){reference-type="ref"
reference="ch:diffusion"} . This chapter ties well together with the
concept of [wanderworts]{acronym-label="wanderwort"
acronym-form="plural+short"}, "wandering loanwords", a phenomenon known
in the field of historical linguistics related to the topic of borrowing
and material culture. The goal of this chapter is to map the diffusion
of the terms of the spice domain, as informed by etymological research.

In addition to this, the data of spice names will also be the basis of a
linguistic analysis, focusing on the characteristics of terms, and the
methods languages use to name spices as presented in
[\[ch:language\]](#ch:language){reference-type="ref"
reference="ch:language"} . This part will include a deep dive into how
spice names are borrowed or created, how prototype items beget prototype
words to generate new names for novel items of trade, and what are the
mechanisms and motivations of linguistic acculturation and spice name
propagation. The goal of this part is to shed light in how spice names
are born and how they operate on linguistic-cognitive levels, what type
of information they convey and what sensory modalities they rely on.

## Definitions {#sec:definitions}

The first step is to clarify what is meant under the term *spices*.
According to the [OED]{acronym-label="OED"
acronym-form="singular+short"}, the definition of *spice* is as follows:
"One or other of various strongly flavoured or aromatic substances of
vegetable origin, obtained from tropical plants, commonly used as
condiments or employment for other purposes on account of their
fragrance and preservative qualities."[^1] Similarly, the first meaning
for *spice* as a noun in [MW]{acronym-label="MW"
acronym-form="singular+short"} is "any of various aromatic vegetable
products (such as pepper or nutmeg) used to season or flavour
foods."[^2] The [AHD]{acronym-label="AHD" acronym-form="singular+short"}
adds examples: "Any of various pungent, aromatic plant substances, such
as cinnamon or nutmeg, used to flavor foods or beverages."[^3] The
Wikipedia entry on *Spice* gives slightly more information, hinting on
which plant parts are frequently used as spices and mentions their
food-coloring properties, while also---very appropriately---ventures
beyond the culinary stance of usual dictionary definitions, stating that
"spices are sometimes used in medicine, religious rituals, cosmetics or
perfume production."[^4] This notion is much more important than
expressing it with a mere 'sometimes' could imply as we will see; before
modern times, spices were much more important for the medicinal
properties.

There is no universal definition on what a spice is; botany,
pharmacology, gastronomy, and history all have different perspectives.
However, the idea about "spices" that the reader currently has in mind,
is bound to be a culinary one. Some authors try to give a definition
according to plant morphology, @czarra_spices_2009 [9] writes about "an
aromatic part of a tropical plant", and goes on to mention bark, flower,
root, and seed. @turner_spice_2004 [xix] adds gum and resin, fruit, and
stigma to this listing. For a full picture, we must complement it
further, as spices can come in many forms: dried tree barks (cinnamon);
twigs (cassia twigs); flower buds (cloves); stigmas or styles (saffron);
fruits (pepper, chili); fruit walls or pericarps (star anise, Sichuan
pepper); berries (allspice, juniper); seeds (nutmeg, coriander); seed
coverings or arils (mace); seed pods (cardamom, vanilla); and roots and
rhizomes (ginger, turmeric). Technically, every dried part of a plant
can be referred to as spice, except the leaves. The green leaves---fresh
or dried, but mostly used fresh---are considered herbs, and they are
used for similar purposes to spices nowadays: flavouring, seasoning,
garnishing. Dried leaves of herbs, such as basil, oregano, and thyme,
can be categorized as "spice herbs" [see @van_wyk_culinary_2014]. The
category of herbs can be problematic, because there is a botanical
definition, and also a culinary definition, and the literature often
confuses the two. Botanically, a herb is an annual, biennial, or
perennial plant that has a soft stem (never becomes woody), and dies
after flowering.[^5] A culinary herb is an herb where the fresh leaves
are used in food preparation, as opposed to other, dried plant parts.
Medicinal herbs are those that are primarily consumed for their
medicinal properties. @oconnell_book_2016 [9,16] backs this view in his
informative compendium, but also cites @rosengarten_book_1973 [16], who
maintained that it is "extremely difficult to determine where a spice
ends and a herb begins". According to him, culinary herbs are just one
group of spices. Along these lines, the @britannica_spice_nodate for
example treats herbs and spices in a single entry.

The above distinction---that herbs are the greens and spices are every
other (dried) parts of a plant---is essentially nonsense to a botanist
since it echoes the needs of a chef. We can give examples for both spice
and herb from the same species: coriander seeds and coriander leaves
(also called cilantro or Chinese parsley in the U.S.) are both from the
plant . Or see an even more elaborate example for culinary
categorization: mustard (, brown mustard). Mustard in Europe is mostly
known in the form of a creamy yellow form, often very pungent, this is
called a *condiment*. This condiment is made from the mustard seeds,
which are considered to be a spice. Some places enjoy mustard greens in
their salads for example, here we can categorize it as a (salad) herb,
and the roots of the mustard plant are popularly fermented in Chinese
cuisine to make pickles, known as *zha cai*. Another often mentioned
difference is that herbs are soft stemmed---as I just mentioned---that
die at the end of the growing season in contrast to woody, spice
yielding trees or shrubs. This, on the other hand, is a botanical
definition, and not very useful for somebody active in the culinary arts
[@allen_herbs_2012 10]. Moreover, most plants we consider herbs grow in
temperate climates, while spices tend to grow in tropical regions
[@turner_spice_2004], a further classification on botanical basis. Herbs
can also be categorized into culinary and medicinal herbs, and in both
cases, the leafy, green parts of foliage are used for their aroma and
flavour, and supposed health benefits, respectively. Defining spices and
herbs is difficult because the definitions vary by discipline, depending
on the needs of the expert: the gardener, the herbalist, the chef. Just
as *herb* has two main definitions---botanical and culinary, the term
*spice* also has two definitions: a culinary and a historical.

In the present study, I focus on dried---plant-based---aromatic
commodities that traveled long distances due to trade and were at
certain points in history considered a desired commodity or even a
luxury. This is basically the definition of the historian, where the
implications of climate and remoteness translated as value. Spices were
a produce difficult to obtain, and thus were often instantly expensive.
Long distance transportation was possible when the plant products were
hauled across deserts and oceans in a dried form, making them
lightweight and less susceptible to rot. Culinary and medicinal herbs
had their value in their freshness, and thus were not ideal products of
trade; they spread through naturalization and transplantation and were
generally available locally, commanding much modest sums of money.
Contrary to herbs, spices were more versatile in their applications,
they were used as medicine due to their (real, believed or exaggerated)
health benefits, as incense and perfume due to their aroma, as coloring
pigments, and as flavoring agents. In connection with Portugal's role in
the 15\--century European spice trade, @halikowski_smith_portugal_2001
distinguishes four categories of spices along the same lines: spices as
*pharmacia*; spices as *aromata*; spices as *pigmenta*; spices as
*condimenta*. Historically speaking, anything rare and aromatic can be
considered a spice, including incense for burning, coffee in the early
days, chocolate, perfumes, or even exotic fruits; anything 'special'
(even if today nobody would agree so).

This is well observed in the origins of the English name: the word
*spice*, via Old French *espice*, coming from Late Latin *speciēs*
(plural) 'spices, goods, wares' with the original meaning in Classical
Latin being 'kind, sort'. English *species* and *special* are obvious
cognates of the same Latin etymon: *speciō*, which referred to anything
observable: a sight, 'spectacle' (cf. *inspect*), and also anything
extraordinary, *specific* kind of item [@glare_oxford_2012 1983-84].
This implies that in different periods, the meaning of the term *spice*
covered different substances, based on what products were considered
special, desirable, and difficult to obtain; the definition constantly
changed. From this point on, whenever spices are mentioned, I refer to
this broader definition, using *spice* as an umbrella term for any
historic *exotica*. These definitions, and the differences between the
terms spice, incense, herb, condiment, etc. will be explored in detail
in the dissertation, as well as a shift in meaning considering spices
([\[shift\]](#shift){reference-type="ref" reference="shift"}).

## Scope

The scope of this study can be delimited by three factors: the subjects
under study (i.e. the spices); the languages involved; and the time
frames covered.

### The Set of Spices

Due to the lack of a single definition and the vast number of both
popular and rare materials, the lists of herbs and spices are as many as
the books written on them. Every compiler---cook, linguist, or
historian---comes up with his or her own list, there is no standard
approach. @czarra_spices_2009 discusses only 5 premier spices, 'the
foremost five' as he calls it, @nabhan_cumin_2014 works with 26 'spice
boxes', to use his terminology, and @rosengarten_book_1973 mentions 41
'of the world's most popular spices'. @van_wyk_culinary_2014 in his
reference guide introduces 120, and the glossary of spice names in
@dalby_dangerous_2000 contains more than 200 entries. The Encyclopædia
Britannica simply lists 70 [@petruzzello_list_nodate].

The attempt to collect and describe spices in their entirety is not a
modern phenomenon, people tried to collect and assemble the knowledge on
aromatic and medicinal plants and products ever since the day we started
to use them, proof being the countless herbariums,[^6]
[materia medicas]{acronym-label="materia medica"
acronym-form="plural+short"}, and
[pharmacopeias]{acronym-label="pharmacopeia"
acronym-form="plural+short"} of the last two millennia, e.g., the
[DMM]{acronym-label="DMM" acronym-form="singular+short"} of Dioscorides.
Besides focusing on medicinal properties, spices were listed as
commodities of trade. We know for example that for reasons motivated by
customs tariff and taxation, Roman ports, such as Berenike[^7] had
inventories of *speciēs* that required special attention
[@parthasarathi_roman_2015], and as a later example we can mention an
Italian merchant's book on trade from the century, which contains 188
"spices" [@pegolotti_pratica_1936 411-435]. Modern considerations and
regulations related to commercial shipping can also be consulted, the
Harmonized System (HS)4 tariff codes (0901-0910) used in international
trade differentiates around 20 different spices, mostly driven by
practical reasons related to storage and transportation
requirements.[^8]

A comprehensive list of the world's spices is likely to be extremely
long and collecting them all in this short period of time seems to be an
unattainable aim, so I must limit my scope, I must select a small set of
spices from the many. I have studied how others perform this selection,
and I concluded that unless we include every known item, there is no
scientifically sound way of selecting just a few, it will always reflect
the compilers' knowledge, interest, and cultural background. I have
planned to include a number of spices, as much as needed for an attempt
to find patterns in diffusion and language use, keeping in mind the
expected variations per cuisine and cultural sphere.

::: {#table:set}
    **\#**                                **English**      **Chinese**   **Translit.**       **Arabic** **Translit.**
  -------- ------------------------------ ---------------- ------------- --------------- -------------- --------------------
         1 *Pimenta dioica*               allspice         多香果        *duōxiāngguǒ*      فلفل إفرنجي *filfil ifranjī*
         2 *Pimpinella anisum*            anise            茴芹          *huíqín*                 ينسون *yansūn*
         3 *Ferula assa-foetida* et al.   asafoetida       阿魏          *āwèi*                   حلتیت *ḥiltīt*
         4 *Carum carvi*                  caraway          葛縷子        *gělǚzi*                كراويا *karāwiyā*
         5 *Elettaria cardamomum*         cardamom         荳蔻              *dòukòu*                   هال *hāl*
         6 *Cinnamomum cassia*            cassia           肉桂          *ròuguì*                 سليخة *salīkha*
         7 *Capsicum annuum* et al.       chile            辣椒          *làjiāo*              فلفل حار *fulful hārr*
         8 *Cinnamomum verum*             cinnamon         錫蘭肉桂      *xīlánròuguì*             قرفة *qirfa*
         9 *Syzygium aromaticum*          clove            丁香          *dīngxiāng*              قرنفل *qaranful*
        10 *Coriandrum sativum*           coriander        芫荽          *yánsui*                 كزبرة *kuzbara*
        11 *Cuminum cyminum*              cumin            孜然          *zīrán*                   كمون *kammūn*
        12 *Anethum graveolens*           dill             蒔蘿          *shíluó*                   شبت *shibitt*
        13 *Foeniculum vulgare*           fennel           茴香          *huíxiāng*                 شمر *shamar*
        14 *Trigonella foenum-graecum*    fenugreek        胡蘆巴        *húlúbā*                  حلبة *ḥulba*
        15 *Zingiber officinale*          ginger           薑            *jiāng*                 زنجبيل *zanjabīl*
        16 *Piper longum*                 long pepper      蓽撥          *bìbō*                دار فلفل *dār filfil*
        17 *Myristica fragrans*           mace             肉荳蔻皮      *ròudòukòupí*           بسباسة *basbāsa*
        18 *Myristica fragrans*           nutmeg           肉荳蔻        *ròudòukòu*          جوز الطيب *jawz al-ṭīb*
        19 *Piper nigrum*                 pepper           胡椒          *hújiāo*                  فلفل *filfil, fulful*
        20 *Crocus sativus*               saffron          番紅花        *fānhónghuā*            زعفران *zaʿfarān*
        21 *Zanthoxylum spp.*             Sichuan pepper   花椒          *huājiāo*         فلفل سيتشوان *filfil sītshuwān*
        22 *Illicium verum*               star anise       八角          *bājiǎo*            ينسون نجمي *yansūn najmī*
        23 *Curcuma longa*                turmeric         薑黃          *jiānghuáng*              كركم *kurkum*
        24 *Vanilla planifolia*           vanilla          香草          *xiāngcǎo*             فانيليا *fānīliyā*

  : The set of 24 spices included in this thesis, with scientific names
  of the source plant, names in English, Chinese, Arabic, and their
  transliterations.
:::

As aromatic plant products are far greater in number than initially
expected (in the hundreds), I had to delimit my study by selecting a
small set of spices as the subjects of this study. One of the clearly
intended future goals of this project is to include all known
historically important aromatic products, but for the sake of this
dissertation be finished on time, I had to make some choices, and I have
set up a list of criteria. The subjects under scrutiny shall adhere to
the followings: (1) a plant-based material, with (2) aromatic or pungent
properties, (3) traded over great distances, (4) since pre-modern times,
(5) once of significant value. The more criteria the substance has
fulfilled, the higher it climbed on my list as I assembled a set of
spices while reading through the literature. Most importantly, I tried
to include globally popular spices that people can be familiar with. In
the end, I have finalized my set including 24 spices for this thesis,
which you can see in [1.1](#table:set){reference-type="ref"
reference="table:set"}.

In the dissertation, I have followed the criteria laid out above, and
included the most prominent spices, for example black pepper (). Pepper
is the world's most traded and consumed spice, followed by cinnamon
[@senaratne_cinnamon_2020 16]. In many parts of the world, pepper is
also the prototype spice. Considering popularity, I have worked
downwards, considering the most consumed, and most traded spices. The
current set of 24 in my opinion is enough to have the big picture, as it
includes a large variety of spices from relatively diverse areas. In the
future I hope to extend this project and include more aromatic materials
to the fold.

The scientific literature usually categorizes spices by their taxonomy
governed by rules from the discipline of botany. Although above I
mentioned standards of international trade that use different
categorizations, I also discussed spices from a historical perspective,
and should emphasize that this is a linguistic study and therefore the
basis of comparison will be the spices as conceptual categories, and the
spice names themselves. Strict botanical other categorizations would be
only secondary. What I mean under this is that, even if the botanical
reality tells us that chili peppers are in fact several different
species and varieties on a taxonomic ladder, I will treat them as a unit
according to the sense the term *chili pepper* conveys. Therefore, the
close organizational units are words, meanings, and concepts. I will
clear this up more in the methodology chapter. Now that we identified
the subjects in our scope, let us move on to the languages to be
included and the time frames to be covered.

### The Languages

To make this study more interesting, I will look at three languages,
namely English, Arabic, and Chinese. All from distant language families,
with very distinct features, these languages represent three very
different cultural spheres that had all participated in the spice trade
in different historical periods and were at times highly influential
players. Investigating spices and spice names through the lens of these
languages offers us an opportunity to take step back from the usual
Eurocentric viewpoint, and observe the spice domain from a more global,
inter-cultural perspective, investigating it via three pillars of human
high culture as equals. These civilizations not only had interactions
with each other, but their representative and languages---rich in
literary traditions---have left a mark on many of the world's languages
through migration, trade, cultural and religious influence,
colonization, and imperialism. By tracing the words' histories up until
contemporary English, Arabic, and Chinese, I must touch on the many
other languages that played a role in transmitting the words, source and
donor languages in the spice domain, such as Sanskrit, Persian, Latin,
and many more. Focusing on the three languages however, will allow for a
comparative approach, withouth overwhelming ourselves with the many
related languages that would make for a scope too wide.

### The Time Frame

Lastly, a few words on defining the time periods to be covered. I will
start the linguistic investigation using a set of contemporary names in
the three languages mentioned above, and I will trace the histories of
the words to the periods where the etymologies lead me. Consequently,
the historical periods that saw the greatest exchange and knowledge
production about spices will be treated with a much emphasis than
others.

These significant eras for example include the 7-- centuries, a period
significant from both Arabic and Chinese points of view. In the Middle
East we have seen the rapid expansion of Islamic empires in the form of
the Umayyad (661--750) and Abbasid caliphates (750--1258), stretching
over vast swathes of land from North Africa on the west, to the
easternmost extremities of Persia. On the Far East, the Tang dynasty
(618--907) illustrated the peak of classical Chinese
civilization---usually regarded open and cosmopolitan---controlling the
regions on the eastern terminus of the Silk Road, followed by the
similarly important Song dynasty (960--1279). In both cases, this time
is regarded as an important cultural and economic golden age: poetry,
literature, science, and trade flourished. Important
[materia medicas]{acronym-label="materia medica"
acronym-form="plural+short"} are extant from the Tang era
[@wu_illustrated_2005], and Islamic authors were occupied producing
heavy tomes on geography, alchemy, medicine, philosophy, and other
topics [@meri_medieval_2006 131]. During the century both powers reached
each other's spheres of influence in central Asia, and at 751 the Battle
of Talas---ending with the victory of the Arab forces and their allies
the Tibetans---affected the fate of the region for centuries.

In the case of English, the appropriate, matching historical period
would be that of Old English, however, this earliest recorded period is
not abundant in spice related terms, although attested wandering
loanwords include *pepper*, *copper*, *gem*, *mint*
[@wollman_early_1993]. In the case of English, the most relevant
historical period would correspond to that from Middle English (ca.
1150--1450) to Early Modern English (late to late c.), where the
dichotomy in the domain of spice terminology between contemporary and
historic times is still observable. This is the historical period marked
by England's slow emergence from the ragged periphery of Europe during
the Age of Discovery, into becoming a global superpower thanks to its
advances towards maritime supremacy, peaked by the foundation of the
East India Company in 1600, and later culminating in the expansion of
the British Empire.

## Contribution

The main contribution of this thesis would be a working database of
spices and their accompanying names that can serve as a basis for
further study in historical linguistics, typlology, and more. Spices and
aromatic products with varying importance and relevance in different
places and in different times are essentially endless, so there is
always a room (and need) to expand. This thesis treats these material as
unique witnesses of cultural interaction and tracks their physical and
linguistic diffusion. Collecting the
[wanderworts]{acronym-label="wanderwort" acronym-form="plural+short"} of
the spice domain and examining their linguistic history makes an
interesting window to look at early human contact, exchange, and the
dissemination of plants, materials, words, and knowledge.

Furthermore, a look into the role of spices' highly sensory nature can
be an exciting point of study regarding human cognition and language,
and especially our attitude towards naming and conceptualizing novel
substances.

## Layout

deals with the literature review, explains the research gap, and
introduces the theoretical framework,
[\[ch:methodology\]](#ch:methodology){reference-type="ref"
reference="ch:methodology"} introduces the research design principles,
its challenges, and the data collection process regarding spices, names,
and etymologies. introduces a few spices in more detial one by one,
including their uses, botany, and history besides their names. The
emprical chapters [\[ch:diffusion\]](#ch:diffusion){reference-type="ref"
reference="ch:diffusion"} &
[\[ch:language\]](#ch:language){reference-type="ref"
reference="ch:language"} will present and the . Lastly, a short
conclusion closes the thesis.

[^1]: [@oed spice].

[^2]: [@mw spice].

[^3]: [@ahd spice].

[^4]: [@wikipedia_spice_2022].

[^5]: [@oed herb].

[^6]: A collection of preserved plants with descriptions and botanical
    analysis.

[^7]: For the history of the ancient Indo-Mediterranean trade through
    archeological research in the port of Berenike, see
    @sidebotham_berenike_2011.

[^8]: The Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System is a
    standardized international system to classify globally traded
    products
    (<https://www.freightos.com/freight-resources/harmonized-system-code-finder-hs-code-lookup/>).
[^allen_encyclopedia_2013]: Allen, L. H., Prentice, A., & Caballero, B. (Eds.). (2013). Encyclopedia of Human Nutrition. Elsevier Science; /z-wcorg/.
[^jurafsky_language_2014]: Jurafsky, D. (2014). The Language of Food: A Linguist Reads the Menu. W.W. Norton & Company.
