# Anise {#sec:anise}

::: wrapfigure
R0.33 ![image](imgs/spices/anise-s.jpg){width="33%"}
:::

Anise () is a herbaceous plant, native to the Eastern Mediterranean and
the Levant. It yields downy schizocarps,[^1] fruits which people call
seeds. Hence the popular contracted form of the name, *aniseed*. The
seed-like fruits are grayish-green to light brown in color, and around
3--6 mm long [@van_wyk_culinary_2014 212]. Commercially available anise
is usually sold whole, with a bit of stalk attached. Anise has visible
*vittae* (oil ducts) embedded in the fruit wall
\[139\]peter_handbook_2012, which is a feature similarly found on the
fruits of related umbelliferous aromatic plants, such as fennel, cumin,
caraway, carom/ajwain, and dill seeds. Anise is sought after for its
characteristic, liquorice-like sweet aroma and flavor, used in
gastronomy, confectionery, and liqueur making -- especially around the
Mediterranean. Anise and its essential oil is traditionally used as a
flavoring for food, candy, and alcoholic drinks, however star anise oil
from China has gradually replaced anise oil in the industry thanks to it
being a much cheaper substitute [@van_wyk_culinary_2014 212].

The taste, smell, and even the appearance of anise resembles
other---related and unrelated---spices, such as fennel, dill, liquorice,
and star anise. This leads to a certain degree of confusion around the
names which these plants and their products are known today in various
languages. We will introduce this problem in more detail in
[\[sec:case_star_anise\]](#sec:case_star_anise){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:case_star_anise"} in .

::: note
It is important to make the distinction between anise () and star anise
() from the beginning. These are two unrelated spices with distant
origins. The similarities in name are due to their similarity in flavor,
thanks to the organic compound anethole.
:::

## The Botany, Origin, and Cultivation of Anise

Anise is an annual herb from the family *Apiaceae/Umbelliferae*. Growing
less than a meter tall, it brings small white flowers in umbels, the
shape of an umbrella which is typical for this family of parsley,
celery, and carrot. This family also contains many other aromatic
flowering plants, such as asafoetida, coriander, cumin, caraway, dill,
and fennel.

Anise originates in the Eastern Mediterranean region, growing from South
East Turkey through Syria to the coasts of Lebanon, Israel, Palestine,
and Egypt, including Cyprus, and in some sources also Greece. It has
been cultivated since 2000 [@mabberley_mabberleys_2017 718]. Anise today
is naturalized in most of Europe and Central Asia, and it is cultivated
as a crop in various regions around the globe, including, Southern
Europe, Southern Russia, Turkey, the Middle East and North Africa,
Pakistan, India, China, Chile, Mexico and the United States
[@farrell_spices_1985 32]. It requires good soil, lots of sun and
warmth, and also arduous to transplant. During harvest at summer's end
when the fruits begin to ripen, the plant parts above ground are cut and
the "seeds" are dried [@van_wyk_culinary_2014 212].

## The History of Anise

Anise has a long history around the Mediterranean, and its popularity is
still concentrated there. It was used both as medicine an a culinary
spice, as I mentioned above. The ancient Greeks took it as a breath
freshener, and the Romans used it in their cooking
[@farrell_spices_1985].

Pliny wrote a section of remedies with anise in his *Natural History*,
where he explains that it was recommended by Pythagoras to take with
wine against scorpion stings, but it is also a great ingredient---both
green and dried---in sauces and breads. And of course, it sweetens the
morning breath with a little honey and smyrnion[^2]
[@pliny_the_elder_natural_1855 20:72 ].

Medieval European herbals tell of carminative effect: "The seed wasteth
and consumeth winde, and is good against belchings and upbraidings of
the stomach, alaieth gripings of the belly, provoketh urine gently,
maketh abundance of milke, and stirreth up bodily lust: it staieth the
laske (diarrhea), and also the white flux (leukorrhea) in women."
[@gerarde_herball_1597 880 ]. Based on modern research, anise oil and
anethole is antibacterial, antifungal, antioxidant, carminative, and
expectorant \[144\]peter_handbook_2012.

The Brits and Arabs use it since the Middle Ages. According to
@wilson_wedding_2005, the tradition of the wedding cake grew out of the
customary spiced cakes at the end of feasts during Roman times, which
served as digestive. In modern Europe, its use is prevalent in
confectionery (such as aniseed balls), but especially liqueurs. From the
many Mediterranean alcoholic beverages flavored with anise, we can
mention anisette and absinthe (made with ), from France, sambuca from
italy, and ouzo and mastika from Greece. In the Eastern Mediterranean,
it can be found in Turkish rakı, and the many araks of the Levant.

## The Names of Anise

*Anise* is a typical [wanderwort]{acronym-label="wanderwort"
acronym-form="singular+short"}: emerging from moderately obscure
origins, it is now ubiquitous to the languages of Europe and its sphere
of influence where it is culturally significant.

### English

To English, it arrived in the century via French *anis*, which descended
from Latin *anīsum*. The Latin word is a borrowing from Ancient Greek
ἄνισον *ánison*, which is attested in different forms in various Greek
dialects of the time, sometimes with *-nn-* and theta instead of sigma
(e.g. ἄνηθον *anēthon*). We can often read that this word originally
referred to dill, but it seems that the Greeks did not distinguish
between the two, and the terms included both plants.[^3] Hence the
scientific name of dill: . According to @beekes_etymological_2010
[103,107], *ánison* is anise, while *anēthon* is dill, but he points out
that they probably have the same etymon. The Romans borrowed both words,
and the distinction was made explicit in *anīsum* vs. *anēthum*. The
modern scientific names bear the Latin names: (anise), where meaning of
*pimpinella* is uncertain, and (dill), where *graveolens* means 'strong
scented' [@gledhill_names_2008 184,303]. The confusion of the Greek
words had an effect on English much later as well, in Matthew 23:23 of
the [KJV]{acronym-label="KJV" acronym-form="singular+short"}[^4] talks
of anise, while newer, more accurate translations, such as the
[NRSV]{acronym-label="NRSV" acronym-form="singular+short"}[^5] mention
dill. In fact, one of the first attestation in English comes from
Wycliffe's Bible in 1382, between mint and cumin: "That tithen mente,
anete \[anese\], and comyn."[^6] Beyond Greek, the etymology of this
word is uncertain, @beekes_etymological_2010 [103,107] suspects a
pre-Greek, substrate origin demonstrated by the phonological variations.
Although the in an early Egyptian glossary makes a connection with the
Egyptian word rendered as *jnst*[^7] 'an edible plant for medicinal use'
in the literature of the Middle Kingdom, the assumption is marked with
question marks in the original handwritten glossary
[@hemmerdinger_noms_1968 240; @erman_worterbuch_1926 99]. The
[AHD]{acronym-label="AHD" acronym-form="singular+short"} remarks that
the Greek word is "perhaps from or akin" to Egyptian *ꞽnśt*---using a
different transliteration---which is a kind of plant used in the
preparation of refreshing drinks, possibly anise.[^8]

The idea is not far-fetched, anise, dill and other herbs are native to
the region and were "almost surely grown" for their medicinal properties
\[3\]redford_oxford_2001. We know that spices and herbs were used to
flavour Ancient Egyptian cooking, Egyptologists have identified
indigenous ingredients (dill, fenugreek, parsley, thyme, nigella,
fennel, marjoram, mint), those imported and transplanted from
neighboring Palestine (dill, cumin, coriander, caraway) and those
obtained through distant trade (cinnamon and peppercorns from Asia) by
the wealthy, later during the New Kingdom times
\[394,540\]redford_oxford_2001.

Anise is also known as *aniseed*, which is a contraction from *anise*
and *seed*, a usage form that emerged in the late century.

*Sweet cumin* is another conventional name for anise, which shows the
primacy of the word *cumin* in English, when it comes to similar
aromatic plants and their seeds. Cf. *wild cumin*, *Armenian cumin*,
*mountain cumin* (caraway); royal cumin[^9] (bishop's weed), and the
always ambiguous *black cumin*

### Arabic

In Arabic, similarly to English, the name of anise is a loanword from
Greek. It is known by many spelling variations: *anīsūn*, *ānīsūn*,
*ansūn*, *yānsūn*, and *yansūn*. In general, the *a-* forms were the
initial loanword taken directly from Greek, then a *y-* form emerged
that assimilates better in Arabic phonology. In addition, synonyms for
anise are *kammūn ḥulw*, lit. 'sweet cumin', and *ḥubba ḥulwa* 'sweet
grain, sweet seed'.

Anise in Persian, is **bādyān rūmī**[^10], literally 'Roman anise',
where *bādyān* is an archaic word for either fennel or anise, the etymon
of French *badiane* that begot English *badian* 'star anise'. A possible
connection between Persian *bādyān* and Mandarin Chinese *bajiao* 'star
anise' have been proposed before, but in my opinion this is merely
wishful thinking.

### Chinese

The gathering of names for anise is a bit difficult in Chinese for two
reasons. Firstly, anise as a spice is relatively unknown in China except
for Xinjiang, and therefore names are hard to find in sources. Since
other spices with a similar flavour profile, such as the native star
anise and the naturalized fennel are readily available, so anise was
never imported into China. Consequently, we cannot find anise in
reference works on Chinese food plants nor in Chinese
[materia medica]{acronym-label="materia medica"
acronym-form="singular+short"} [see
@hu_enumeration_1999; @hu_food_2005]. It does however appear in the
[FOC]{acronym-label="FOC" acronym-form="singular+short"}[^11] Secondly,
identifications is problematic and confusing due to the mixing of terms
*anise*, *aniseed*, *star anise*, *star aniseed*, etc. in English, and
Chinese dictionaries, and in some databases as well. Dictionaries that
do not give botanical names are of little help to clarify doubts, but
some conclusions can be derived with care. Most dictionary entries in
Chinese that translate *anise* to *aniseed* should in fact say *star
anise*, as they ar all words referring to the Asian spice, except for
one: *huiqin*.

Anise in Chinese is 茴芹 *huiqin* 'anise-celery', which appears to be a
relatively modern, scientific coinage, and the only
[phytonym]{acronym-label="phytonym" acronym-form="singular+short"} that
appears in any publication (the [FOC]{acronym-label="FOC"
acronym-form="singular+short"}). It is used in the strict sense of and
cannot be misunderstood for star anise (). It does not appear in
historical corpora, and it is not included in the edition of the
*Xiandai Hanyu Cidian* \[A Dictionary of Modern Chinese\]
[@chinese_academy_of_social_sciences_xiandai_2016], but it appears in
the [CEC]{acronym-label="CEC" acronym-form="singular+short"}[^12], which
gives us *huiqin*, along with *yanghuixiang* 'Western anise'. *huixiang*
really refers to fennel, and the only reason it appears in
@kleeman_oxford_2010 is the confusion between the materials, and their
names. The nomenclature and the reasons behind its confusion will be
explored in more detail in
[\[sec:case_star_anise\]](#sec:case_star_anise){reference-type="ref"
reference="sec:case_star_anise"}. A few other names are mentioned on the
Chinese Wikipedia page of the plant, these all refer to the European
origins of this spice, or referring to"Western Ocean", the Indian Ocean
used to denote foreign, western products that have arrived over
sea.[^13].

A Latin-Chinese dictionary from a presbyterian missionary from 1841
lists *huiqin* as *thymus* 'thyme',[^14] which is rather confusing
considering that 10 years earlier, the same author rendered it 'oregano'
in his Portuguese-Chinese dictionary.[^15]. From this, we can speculate
that more of the various spice herbs that the Portuguese and other
Europeans brought to Macao were first denoted with *huiqin*.

### Summary

shows the names of anise that can be found in dictionaries.

[^1]: Schizocarp refers to a dry compound fruit which splits into two or
    more one-seeded carpels (mericarps) without dehiscing

[^2]: , an edible pot herb commonly known as *alexanders*

[^3]: [@oed anise].

[^4]: Source:
    <https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+23%3A23&version=KJV>

[^5]: Source:
    <https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+23%3A23&version=NRSVUE>

[^6]: [@oed anise].

[^7]: Transliterated as *ꞽnś.t* in @erman_worterbuch_1926 [99],
    conventional Egyptological pronunciation: /insɛt/

[^8]: [@ahd anise ].

[^9]: Parallel to Indo-Persian *shāh-jīrā \[king-cumin\] 'caraway'*

[^10]: [@hayyim_new_1934 Vol. 1, p. 197].

[^11]: Source:
    <http://www.efloras.org/florataxon.aspx?flora_id=2&taxon_id=200015767>

[^12]: Source:
    <https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english-chinese-traditional/anise>
    and
    <https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english-chinese-traditional/aniseed>.

[^13]: Source: <https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E8%8C%B4%E8%8A%B9>

[^14]: [@goncalves_lexicon_1841 715].

[^15]: [@goncalves_diccionario_1831 585].
