---
title: "Introduction"
weight: 10
# bookCollapseSection: true
# bookComments: true
# bookFlatSection: true
# bookHidden: true
# bookSearchExclude: true
bookToc: false
---

# Introduction

## Significance

Understanding the language of spices is a key to open a door to this
world. A door that leads to the realization that our words---and
material culture---are deeply interconnected, and that they have have
been so for thousands of years. I will try to demonstrate this by
introducing these fascinating substances from a new perspective, the
perspective of language. It is trendy nowadays to talk about *foodways*,
a term that refers to "the eating habits and culinary practices of
people, regions, or historical periods",[^allen_encyclopedia_2013]
and food history, a relatively young interdisciplinary academic field is
starting to gain traction as well. However, the connections between
language and food are one of the most interesting examples of
contemporary humanities research I have come across (see Jurafsky, 2014).[^jurafsky_language_2014] There is a segment of this topic---the spice
domain---which encompasses products that have had profound effects of
human imagination, culture, and history. Although somewhat overshadowed
by the serious questions of nutrition, modern scientific research on
spices was never a fringe field. It is enough to look at the many
pharmacological studies that dive into the chemistry of these materials
to realize that people are still interested in their health
effects---just as they were thousands of years ago---as much as their
taste and aroma.

Spices are not a necessity to human survival, but commanded intense
desire and efforts, and as such they constitute an enthralling
phenomenon throughout human history, which can be studied from many
angles. Therefore, research on spices has been embraced by many
historians, a few botanists, and countless culinary enthusiasts.
Scholars also realized the cultural significance of these products and
their trade early on, and following the path of these materials tried to
uncover the stories they can tell us about cultural contact and
exchange. Spices in the past conveyed the mystery and riches of faraway
lands, they were considered remedies for sickness, and they were the
ultimate gifts of paradise. It may be so that spices are not vital for
humans, but sustenance itself is just enough to maintain life, not to
live it to the fullest. Spices today represent the excitement, the joy
and vigor, as it is so clear from expressions in our language: to *spice
up* your life is to enliven it!

## Originality

This thesis aims to do a systematic investigation on spice names and
related terminology, including products that were used (or still being
used) medicinally, as incense, or as perfume. Aromatics that were at
some point considered spices have been traded and transported across
long distances since antiquity and before, and the most coveted ones
have slowly dispersed throughout the globe. Spices and the spice domain
as a topic are usually discussed within the broad disciplines of
history, botany, chemistry, and gastronomy, all concerned by very
different aspects of these materials. To the best of my knowledge, there
is no academic work that puts the field of linguistics in focus when
discussing spices as a whole, and so this project is a unique
contribution to our linguistic knowledge about the spice domain.

But why should anyone care about spices and their names? Because
exploring the names of the products of the spice trade---traveling on
vast networks of historic trade routes such as the Silk Road (small
volume of trade), and its nautical counterpart the Maritime Silk Road
(large volume of trade)---helps us to map and better understand
linguistic contact and cultural exchange. These ever-expanding trade
networks, first regional, later connecting East and West were a
precursor to today's globalized, interconnected world, and one of their
most lucrative products was dried plant-matter. These aromatic
substances were lightweight, easy to transport, and resistant to
spoilage. And, of course, they were highly valued for their fragrant and
pungent properties, and their reputed---both putative and
real---benefits for the human body and soul. Exotic and rare spices and
their role in rituals, medicine, and later cuisine made them sought
after, and the spice business inspired people to trade, travel, explore,
and wage wars. Spices are important in world history as they are
directly responsible for discoveries, colonization, and the birth of
capitalism. We know a great deal about the nature of spices thanks to
botanists and naturalist, their medicinal effects thanks to pharmacists
and chemists, and their uses and culinary values thanks to experts of
gastronomy. There is also a vast literature on the spread and economics
of spices thanks to researchers of history, but the careful study of
their names is often neglected. The meticulous study of spice
terminology is important, because the words can tell us a huge deal
about the material's origins and journey, even at a time depth where
textual or archeological evidence is not available. This work was born
out of fascination with the etymologies and global dispersion of spice
terms, and hopefully the attempt to collect them in one study can be
original and interesting.

         # Species                     English         Chinese  Translit.       Arabic      Translit.
         1 Pimenta dioica              allspice        多香果   duōxiāngguǒ     فلفل إفرنجي     filfil ifranjī
         2 Pimpinella anisum           anise           茴芹     huíqín          ينسون         yansūn
         3 Ferula assa-foetida et al.  asafoetida      阿魏     āwèi            حلتیت         ḥiltīt
         4 Carum carvi                 caraway         葛縷子   gělǚzi          كراويا         karāwiyā
         5 Elettaria cardamomum        cardamom        荳蔻     dòukòu          هال          hāl
         6 Cinnamomum cassia           cassia          肉桂     ròuguì          سليخة         salīkha
         7 Capsicum annuum et al.      chile           辣椒     làjiāo          فلفل حار       fulful hārr
         8 Cinnamomum verum            cinnamon        錫蘭肉桂 xīlánròuguì     قرفة          qirfa
         9 Syzygium aromaticum         clove           丁香     dīngxiāng       قرنفل         qaranful
        10 Coriandrum sativum          coriander       芫荽     yánsui          كزبرة         kuzbara
        11 Cuminum cyminum             cumin           孜然     zīrán           كمون          kammūn
        12 Anethum graveolens          dill            蒔蘿     shíluó          شبت          shibitt
        13 Foeniculum vulgare          fennel          茴香     huíxiāng        شمر          shamar
        14 Trigonella foenum-graecum   fenugreek       胡蘆巴   húlúbā          حلبة           ḥulba
        15 Zingiber officinale         ginger          薑       jiāng           زنجبيل         zanjabīl
        16 Piper longum                long pepper     蓽撥     bìbō            دار فلفل        dār filfil
        17 Myristica fragrans          mace            肉荳蔻皮 ròudòukòupí     بسباسة          basbāsa
        18 Myristica fragrans          nutmeg          肉荳蔻   ròudòukòu       جوز الطيب      jawz al-ṭīb
        19 Piper nigrum                pepper          胡椒     hújiāo          فلفل           filfil, fulful
        20 Crocus sativus              saffron         番紅花   fānhónghuā      زعفران         zaʿfarān
        21 Zanthoxylum spp.            Sichuan pepper  花椒     huājiāo         فلفل سيتشوان    filfil sītshuwān
        22 Illicium verum              star anise      八角     bājiǎo          ينسون نجمي     yansūn najmī
        23 Curcuma longa               turmeric        薑黃     jiānghuáng      كركم          kurkum
        24 Vanilla planifolia          vanilla         香草     xiāngcǎo        فانيليا          fānīliyā

The set of 24 spices included in this thesis, with scientific names of the source plant, names in English, Chinese, Arabic, and their transliterations.

[^allen_encyclopedia_2013]: Allen, L. H., Prentice, A., & Caballero, B. (Eds.). (2013). Encyclopedia of Human Nutrition. Elsevier Science; /z-wcorg/.
[^jurafsky_language_2014]: Jurafsky, D. (2014). The Language of Food: A Linguist Reads the Menu. W.W. Norton & Company.
